---
layout: post
title: "SOLID"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


## Single Responsibility Priniciple -
_A class should have only one reason to change, thus it should perform
only one job._

Probably the most intuitive and easy to understand, but its application
in code does wonders regarding simplicity and readability.

Take a look at the code below, we have defined a class person, which has
3 attributes. One of them is email, which needs to be verified.

    '''
    class Person{
      name: string ;
      address: string;
      email: string;
      validate email(){
        //validation logic
      }
    }
    '''

Now, one might want to verify email in his own way, whether its syntax
or domain or whatever. These changes are considerable for the person
class. Also, it makes it very cumbersome.

So, we take the validation step outside, create a new class. That will
leave us with Person class with only one job - just define a person
object. That should be it.

    '''
    class Email{
      email: string;
      validate email(){
        //validation logic
      }
    }

    class Person{
      name: string;
      address: string;
      email: Email;
    }

    '''

SRP has following advantages

- it makes refactoring really easy.
- imposes a great deal of structure on the code.
- naming things, which is actually tough, is made easier since classes
  now have one simple job, so one can name them accordingly which can
  make it clear what it does.

Let's move on to the next one.

## Open/Closed Principle

*Modules should be open for extension, but closed for modification.*

Let's take a look at an example -

    '''
    class Rectangle{
      width;
      height;
    }

    class AreaCalculator{
      calculateArea(){
        //calculate area
      }
    }
    '''

Now suppose, you are instructed that AreaCalculator class should
calculate area of a circle as well. You might think that's not a big
deal.

You make one circle class and edit the AreaCalculator accordingly.

    '''
    class Circle{
      radius;
    }

    class AreaCalculator(shape){
      calculateArea(){
        if(shape == rectangle) return width * height;
        else return pie*radius*radius
      }
    }
    '''

Yay, you did it. But now, you instructed to add one for triangle as
well. Well this is getting bad now, you will now edit the function,
adding another if-else will result in complex code. You do know we don't
like complex code.

So, how do we get it right? Well, OCP wants us to write code, which are
closed for modification but open for extension. It wants you to separate
the behaviours of the system, such that utterly intrinsic behaviours are
behind a wall, that can't be touched and the remainings that are
variable and might change a lot are on other side of the wall. The base
class is behind the wall, untouchable and all the dependencies point
towards the base class.

To resolve the above code, we will using interfaces. Let's see how that
works out.

    '''
    interface Area{
      calculateArea(){}
    }

    class Rectangle : Area{
      width;
      height;

      calculateArea(){
        return width*height;
      }
    }
    class Circle : Area{
      radius;

      calculateArea(){
        return pie*radius*radius;
      }
    }
    '''

Now, even if you are told to find area of traingle, you will simply add
another class, implement the Area interface and override the function,
without modifying the existing code. Neat huh.
